- [Instructor] As with all technology,
there is no silver bullet.
Serverless has some risks that need to be evaluated
before making the jump to it
as a technology choice for your institution.
First and foremost, we need to talk about costs.
Now, heavy workloads in a serverless environment
can actually cost more than running a VM,
even when that VM has those peaks
and valleys that we talked about.
It's hard sometimes to get a true picture
of cost effectiveness in a serverless model because of this.
Now, designing with serverless may hide some efficiencies
that you could gain from a cost perspective.
So let's take a look at the example
of where we're running multiple serverless functions
against a single trigger.
Could we achieve the same thing by fanning that trigger out
and actually reducing our costs
in a traditional VM environment?
Another risk that comes
with serverless is the inability to do proper debugging.
Now I'm not saying it's impossible,
but it sometimes becomes very difficult to debug operations,
especially when those serverless functions are running
in a Cloud environment.
You cannot simply connect to running servers many times,
which makes it difficult to do real time debugging
against a running process.
Now, when you start chaining serverless functions,
that debugging becomes even more complex,
because now we have serverless functions
that trigger other functions,
and we now have to figure out how to get output
and debug against multiple functions at one time.
I often find that logging is the most effective way
to do debugging, which is kind of an old school way
of doing debugging, but sometimes it's your only choice.
By putting a little out statements that say,
look here, or I'm here,
we can get a better indication of where we're at by reducing
the complexity associated with connecting to debugging.
But of course, every time you're doing that,
you have to trigger a function,
which then costs you more money.
Now, another hard part is testing.
Testing can be a struggle with serverless.
And that's simply because the emulators from vendors
that help, aren't an exact replica of what happens
in a real runtime.
In addition, sometimes you run
against serverless technologies
that don't have an emulator at all,
so it's almost impossible to test against them
in a live environment.
It also can be very hard
to integration tests serverless functions,
because you have to be able to run them in your environment,
but that environment isn't something that you run,
it runs in a Cloud provider.
So that adds to the complexity
of actually effectively testing it,
and oftentimes you end up doing mocks around
those serverless functions, so that you don't have to deal
with the Cloud provider itself.
But of course, those are mocks and not true tests
of the running system as a whole.
Now one of the biggest problems that I've seen
with serverless functions is this concept of sprawl.
As you start to write more and more functions,
your function-base grows.
And as with any growth, individual elements become harder
to control when you're running multiple,
especially when you start interacting with triggers
from the Cloud provider or from various technologies
and chaining events.
That sprawl can be almost unimaginable to deal
with when you first start running serverless functions.
And again, triggers and chains just expand this pain
beyond belief, because now you have different ways
of calling functions.
It's not uncommon for a function to have two
or three triggers, or two or three chains,
or sometimes a mixture of them.
And that complexity that gets added
to your environment makes maintaining that,
that much more difficult.
Now, I don't want to discourage you from serverless,
I think it's a fantastic technology
if used in the proper use case.
So let's take a look at some of the use cases next.